# IOT-Application-on-Wildlife-Surveillance
Floods is a water-related natural disasters which affect a wide range of environmental factors and activities related to agriculture, vegetation, human and wild life and local economies. It is the single most important weatherrelated natural disaster often aggravated by human action, since it affects very large areas for months and years and thus has a serious impact on regional food production, life expectancy for entire populations and economic performance of large regions or several countries. During 1967-1991, floods have affected 50 per cent of the billion people who suffered from all natural disasters and killed 35 per cent of the 3.5 million people who lost their lives. In the recent years large-scale intensive floods have been observed in all continents leading to huge economic losses, destruction of ecological resources, food shortages and
starvation of millions people. Floods are among the most devastating natural hazards in the world, claiming more lives and causing more property damage than any other natural phenomena. Several users such as top level policy makers at the national and international organisations, researchers, middle level policy makers at the state, province and local levels consultants, relief agencies and local producers including farmers, suppliers, traders and water managers are interested in reliable and accurate drought and flood information for effective management. The procedure of logical untamed life perception incorporates the revealing of what (determination of the species), where (land
area), when (date and time), who (insights regarding spectator), and why (the purpose behind perception, or clarifications for the event). Natural life perception can be performed if the creatures are alive, with the most outstanding model being eye to eye perception and live cameras, or are dead, with the essential model being the telling of where roadkill has happened. These frameworks the essential data expected to gather information for a natural life perception; which can likewise add to logical examinations of appropriation, living space relations, patterns, and development of untamed life species. Through untamed life perception, there are numerous significant subtleties that
can be found about nature. For example, if a fisher in Taiwan finds that a specific type of fish he/she habitually gets is getting to be rarer and rarer, there may be a considerable issue in the water that fisher is angling in. It may be the case that there is another predator in the water that has changed the creature's evolved way of life, a wellspring of contamination, or maybe even a bigger issue. Despite the explanation, this procedure of watching creatures can help recognize potential issues before they become serious issues on the planet. Moreover, through creature perception, the individuals who take an interest are additionally effectively taking part in the preservation of creature life. As a rule, the two subjects go connected at the hip with each other in light of the fact that through the perception of creatures, people are likewise finding what issues creatures around the globe are presently confronting and if there are any approaches to set up a battle against them. With more perception, fewer types of
creatures will end up wiped out. India has been identified as an ecological blackspot where half of the wildlife is vulnerable to extinction. This is caused due to the destruction of forest areas for farming, logging and construction of new cities and towns. This is forcing the animals to move out of their habitat and into human establishments, which is causing problems to both animals and humans. Recent advancements in sensor technology has the potential to revolutionize our understanding of the natural and man-made environment by providing fine grained spatio-temporal data (moving object databases and real time locating system). Physical barriers cause physical
damage to animals which can sometimes lead to death of the very animals we are trying to protect. This can be prevented by using virtual fencing which is a lifesaving improvement from the existing system. This project implements a sensor network, designed to track the location of the animals in sanctuaries and national park without hurting the animals. Forest fire and deforestation (or any illegal activities in the forest) can also be monitored through this system and it helps us preventing the destruction of wildlife. The proposed system will provide safety and security to wildlife and help to increase their numbers which are on extinction. Animal tracking system is useful for tracking and monitoring of animals. So, they can be protected from illegal hunting, killing or capturing of wild animals. Embedded system based this project provides accurate health information and location of the animal. System provide automated solution for data prediction. This system helps to divert the animals while entering the village. Because of this the human work can be minimized and the death of wild life also can be minimized. This system can also have its usage in border security system, home automation system, school zones, and in railway tracks and it has low cost and good performance. This paper presents the design, deployment and empirical study of an internet of things (IOT) system, which is used to monitor and protect the living environment of the wildlife. In order to make the system meet the needs of practical applications
and adapt to the local various landform characteristic, the communication module of the system is composed to three different communication networks, which supports the protocol of IEEE 802.15.4/ ZigBee networks, IEEE 802.11b WLANs and 3G respectively. The communication cost according to various transmission devices is not equilibrium, it is necessary to design appropriate and effective transmission strategies for the heterogeneous communication network. Especially, the subnetwork constructed by the low power nodes is only powered by discharged batteries. The performance of energy-saving scheme for this type of network is very important, because it will impact on the lifetime of the whole system. Thus we introduce a power management scheme which can reduce the energy expenditure of the system effectively. The working overhead can be reduced to
53.18% under the 95.23% transmission reliability through the analysis of the experimental result. For ecologists, understanding the reaction of animals to environmental changes is critical. Using networked sensor technology to measure wildlife and environmental parameters can provide accurate, real‐time and comprehensive data for monitoring,
research and conservation of wildlife. This paper reviews: (i) conventional detection technology; (ii) concepts and applications of the Internet of Things (IoT) in animal ecology; and (iii) the advantages and disadvantages of IoT. The current theoretical limits of IoT in animal ecology are also discussed. Although IoT offers a new direction in animal ecological research, it still needs to be further explored and developed as a theoretical system and applied to the appropriate scientific frameworks for understanding animal ecology. Yan With the development of Internet of Things (IOT) industry, research on wildlife monitoring meets with innovative progress. In this manuscript, we analyse the development of communication technologies, and discuss the architecture of wildlife observation and communication system from three aspects: component, communication platform, and research application. We introduce our preliminary research on a real-world bird tracking system, and discuss the system's working process and mechanisms such as power saving, data storage, and communication area indication. We introduce initial system applications on tracking and behavior recognition, and give some considerations on the architecture implementation.
